opennms-doc/guide-admin/src/asciidoc/text/flows/classification-engine.adoc, before:


// Allow GitHub image rendering
:imagesdir: ../../../images

[[ga-flow-support-classification-engine]]
=== Classification Engine

The _Classification Engine_ applies a set of user- and/or system-defined rules to each flow to classify it.
This allows users to group flows by applications, e.g. if all flows to port 80 are marked as `http`.

In order to classify a flow, a rule must be defined.
A rule defines at least a name, which the flow is classified with, and additional parameters which must match for a successful classification.

==== Rule definition
A rule has the following fields:

|===
| Name | Mandatory | Description

| `name`
| `mandatory`
| The name the flow is classified with, e.g. `http`


| `dstPort`
| `optional`
| The `dstPort` of the flow must match this port.
  May be a range or list of ports, e.g. 80,8080,8980, or 8000-9000.

| `dstAddress`
| `optional`
| The `dstAddress` of the flow must match this address.
  May contain wildcards.

| `srcPort`
| `optional`
| The `srcPort` of the flow must match this port.
  See `dstPort` for more details.

| `srcAddress`
| `optional`
| The `srcAddress` of the flow must match this address.
  See `dstAddress` for more details.

| `exporterFilter`
| `optional`
| The exporter of the flow must match this criteria.
  It supports all capabilities of the _https://wiki.opennms.org/wiki/Filters[{opennms-product-name} Filters API]_.

| `protocol`
| `optional`
| The ip protocol of the flow must match this criteria.
|===

Even if all fields (besides `name`) are optional, at least one of them must be defined to be considered a valid rule.
A list of pre-defined rules already exist.
The pre-defined rules are inspired by the https://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/service-names-port-numbers.xhtml[IANA Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry].
New rules can be defined using the _Classification UI_ which can be found in the Admin Menu: *Admin -> Configure OpenNMS -> Manage Flow Classification*

==== Rule Priority
User-defined rules always have a higher priority than the pre-defined rules.
For example, if the user defines a new rule, `http` with a `dstPort` of `8980` that rule has a higher priority than the pre-defined rule `www-alt`.

The priorities are as follows:

|===
| Field | Priority

| `srcAddress`
| `+9`

| `dstAddress`
| `+9`

| `srcPort`
| `+3`

| `dstPort`
| `+3`

| `protocol`
| `+1`

| `exporterFilter`
| `+1`

|===

The priority is added for each field which is defined according to the table above.
This means a rule with a `srcAddress` or `dstAddress` has a priority of at least 9 and is always higher than a rule with a `srcPort` or `dstPort`, etc.

The calculation of the priority is implemented https://github.com/OpenNMS/opennms/blob/develop/features/flows/classification/persistence/api/src/main/java/org/opennms/netmgt/flows/classification/persistence/api/RuleDefinition.java#L52-61[here].

NOTE:   At the moment it is not possible to manually define a priority.
        This may be implemented at a later time.
        See issue https://issues.opennms.org/browse/HZN-1265[HZN-1265].

==== Verification

With a more complex set of rules it is not always easy to verify if everything is configured correctly.
To make things a bit easier, the _Classification UI_ allows to test/verify a classification.
To do so, please navigate to the _Classification UI_:
*Admin -> Configure OpenNMS -> Manage Flow Classification* and select the _Test Classification_ action in the top right.
This allows to simulate a flow being send to the _Classification Engine_ with certain fields.

==== Example

Let's assume the following rules are defined:

|===
| name |  srcAddress | srcPort | dstAddress | dstPort | protocol | exporterFilter

| `OpenNMS`
|
|
| 10.0.0.1
| 8980
| tcp,udp
|

| `http`
|
|
|
| 80,8980,8080,9000
| udp,tcp
|

| `https`
|
|
|
| 443
|
|

| `Exporters`
|
|
|
|
|
| categoryName == 'Exporters'
|===


The following flows are send to _{opennms-product-name}_ and with the rules defined above classified accordingly.

[%header, cols=2]
|===
| Flow
| Classification

| protocol: tcp,

  srcAddress: 10.0.0.5, srcPort: 60123,

  dstAddress: 54.246.188.65, dstPort: 80,

  exporterAddress: 10.0.0.55
| `http`

| protocol: tcp,

  srcAddress: 10.0.0.5, srcPort: 60123,

  dstAddress: 54.246.188.65, dstPort: 443,

  exporterAddress: 10.0.0.55
| `https`

| protocol: tcp,

  srcAddress: 10.0.0.5, srcPort: 60123,

  dstAddress: 10.0.0.1, dstPort: 8980,

  exporterAddress: 10.0.0.55
| `OpenNMS`

|===

Commit message:

NMS-10496: Update flow classification to support omnidirectional rules

opennms-doc/guide-admin/src/asciidoc/text/flows/classification-engine.adoc, after:


// Allow GitHub image rendering
:imagesdir: ../../../images

[[ga-flow-support-classification-engine]]
=== Classification Engine

The _Classification Engine_ applies a set of user- and/or system-defined rules to each flow to classify it.
This allows users to group flows by applications, e.g. if all flows to port 80 are marked as `http`.

In order to classify a flow, a rule must be defined.
A rule defines at least a name, which the flow is classified with, and additional parameters which must match for a successful classification.

==== Rule definition
A rule has the following fields:

|===
| Name | Mandatory | Description

| `name`
| `mandatory`
| The name the flow is classified with, e.g. `http`

| `dstPort`
| `optional`
| The `dstPort` of the flow must match this port.
  May be a range or list of ports, e.g. 80,8080,8980, or 8000-9000.

| `dstAddress`
| `optional`
| The `dstAddress` of the flow must match this address.
  May contain wildcards.

| `srcPort`
| `optional`
| The `srcPort` of the flow must match this port.
  See `dstPort` for more details.

| `srcAddress`
| `optional`
| The `srcAddress` of the flow must match this address.
  See `dstAddress` for more details.

| `exporterFilter`
| `optional`
| The exporter of the flow must match this criteria.
  It supports all capabilities of the _https://wiki.opennms.org/wiki/Filters[{opennms-product-name} Filters API]_.

| `protocol`
| `optional`
| The ip protocol of the flow must match this criteria.
|===

Even if all fields (besides `name`) are optional, at least one of them must be defined to be considered a valid rule.
A list of pre-defined rules already exist.
The pre-defined rules are inspired by the https://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/service-names-port-numbers.xhtml[IANA Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry].
New rules can be defined using the _Classification UI_ which can be found in the Admin Menu: *Admin -> Configure OpenNMS -> Manage Flow Classification*

==== Omnidirectional Rules
Rules can be marked as omnidirectional which additionally evaluates the rules with interchanged endpoint addresses and ports.
This is helpfull if traffic related to a matching classification should be classified the same way.

==== Rule Priority
User-defined rules always have a higher priority than the pre-defined rules.
For example, if the user defines a new rule, `http` with a `dstPort` of `8980` that rule has a higher priority than the pre-defined rule `www-alt`.

The priorities are as follows:

|===
| Field | Priority

| `srcAddress`
| `+9`

| `dstAddress`
| `+9`

| `srcPort`
| `+3`

| `dstPort`
| `+3`

| `protocol`
| `+1`

| `exporterFilter`
| `+1`

|===

The priority is added for each field which is defined according to the table above.
This means a rule with a `srcAddress` or `dstAddress` has a priority of at least 9 and is always higher than a rule with a `srcPort` or `dstPort`, etc.

The calculation of the priority is implemented https://github.com/OpenNMS/opennms/blob/develop/features/flows/classification/persistence/api/src/main/java/org/opennms/netmgt/flows/classification/persistence/api/RuleDefinition.java#L52-61[here].

NOTE:   At the moment it is not possible to manually define a priority.
        This may be implemented at a later time.
        See issue https://issues.opennms.org/browse/HZN-1265[HZN-1265].

==== Verification

With a more complex set of rules it is not always easy to verify if everything is configured correctly.
To make things a bit easier, the _Classification UI_ allows to test/verify a classification.
To do so, please navigate to the _Classification UI_:
*Admin -> Configure OpenNMS -> Manage Flow Classification* and select the _Test Classification_ action in the top right.
This allows to simulate a flow being send to the _Classification Engine_ with certain fields.

==== Example

Let's assume the following rules are defined:

|===
| name |  srcAddress | srcPort | dstAddress | dstPort | protocol | exporterFilter

| `OpenNMS`
|
|
| 10.0.0.1
| 8980
| tcp,udp
|

| `http`
|
|
|
| 80,8980,8080,9000
| udp,tcp
|

| `https`
|
|
|
| 443
|
|

| `Exporters`
|
|
|
|
|
| categoryName == 'Exporters'
|===


The following flows are send to _{opennms-product-name}_ and with the rules defined above classified accordingly.

[%header, cols=2]
|===
| Flow
| Classification

| protocol: tcp,

  srcAddress: 10.0.0.5, srcPort: 60123,

  dstAddress: 54.246.188.65, dstPort: 80,

  exporterAddress: 10.0.0.55
| `http`

| protocol: tcp,

  srcAddress: 10.0.0.5, srcPort: 60123,

  dstAddress: 54.246.188.65, dstPort: 443,

  exporterAddress: 10.0.0.55
| `https`

| protocol: tcp,

  srcAddress: 10.0.0.5, srcPort: 60123,

  dstAddress: 10.0.0.1, dstPort: 8980,

  exporterAddress: 10.0.0.55
| `OpenNMS`

|===
